# Zendesk by Fivetran
### What's Zendesk? What does this Block do?
Zendesk is a cloud-based customer service software and support ticketing system. Zendesk enables companies to track customer interactions and address customer issues through tickets and other customer support services.

### What's the value prop for customers? Why is Looker a good fit for this data source?
__(1) Go beyond basic Zendesk reporting__ - Replicate pre-configured Ticket Metrics from Zendesk, but get much more from your data like how your ticket performance is tracking over time (as opposed to a current snapshot).

__(2) Historical Analysis__ - Get an understanding of how your key metrics are tracking over time as opposed to a current snapshot. Find correlations and trends on these metrics.

__(3) Company Overview -> Individual Performance Workflow__ - Start your day with a snapshot of the company is performing on tickets as a whole, but then be able to drill into ticket segments or individual agent performance.

__(4) Combine with Other Data Sources__ - Through other Fivetran connectors, combine your Zendesk data with...

- __Product__ data to understand where issues are arising

- __Salesforce__ data to get cross-organization clarity on which accounts need support

- __JIRA__ to tie bugs and feature requests back to customer tickets

- And many more...

### What do we get out of the box?
- Three Dashboards that provide an end-to-end workflow

	- Zendesk Overview
	
		- High-level KPI's and how they are trending for the entire organization to measure against your customer support SLA's
		
		- Evaluate ticket volume by organization to identify which customers are requiring the most attention of your team
		
		- See ticket submission volume by hour of the day and day of the week to more efficiently allocate resources
		
		- View ticket submissions over time to understand the level at which your customers are leveraging your support team
		
		- See the breakdown of ticket submissions by channel to understand where most of your support requests are generated
		
		- Identify top agents in your organization
		
	- Zendesk Agent Performance
	
		- Monitor individual agent performance to understand who is excelling and where more support is needed
		
		- See how your team’s response and reply time have fluctuated over time to identify trends and opportunities for improvement or celebration groups and more efficiently manage resources
		
	- Zendesk Ticket
	
		- Get all the detail you need from a ticket in one place without ever leaving Looker
		
- An easy-to-use but detailed Ticket Explore

	- Includes many commonly used fields with tooltips straight from Zendesk documentation
	
	- Complex ticket metrics pre-defined
	
	- Curated with hidden fields that aren't vital when getting started
	

### Block Structure & Implementation Instructions

This Block is modeled on the schema brought in by Fivetran's [Zendesk connector](https://fivetran.com/docs/applications/zendesk). The schema that is brought over is detailed on this documentation page from Fivetran.

__Action Item__: Begin by moving the four files in this block into your Looker instance.

* **_zendesk_block.view** - Contains all the view files for this block for Zendesk by Fivetran. There are more tables available for Zendesk, but they are not used in this block. They can be generated by Looker and added into the zendesk_block.model file if preferred.
  - __Action Item__: Perform a find and replace on `sql_table_name: zendesk` (8) and `FROM zendesk` (5) with your schema name if it is not `zendesk`.

* **_zendesk_variables.view** - This view file is provided for easy implementation. 
  - __Action Item__: The values here under the `sql:` parameters should be changed to match the values for your specific instances of Looker and Zendesk. Each parameter and value are further documented within this file.

* **zendesk_block.model** - This model file contains one Explore for the block. The last two `joins` are for facts tables.
  - __Action Item__: Be sure to update your connection string.

* **zendesk_dashboards.dashboard** - This dashboard file contains the three block dashboards. 
  - __Action Item__: If you renamed the model file, ensure to find and replace `model: zendesk_block` (31) with the new name.

### What if I find an error? Have suggestions for improvements?

Great! Blocks were designed for continuous improvement through the help of the entire Looker community, and we'd love your input. To log an error or improvement recommendation, simply create a "New Issue" in the corresponding [Github repo for this Block](https://github.com/llooker/fivetran_zendesk_block/issues). Please be as detailed as possible in your explanation, and we'll address it as quickly as we can.
